# Loan_default_prediction
Project Title : Loan Default Prediction : Predicting whether a customer will default on a loan. 
download.png

Numerous companies from financial indutry often invest considerable resources to improve their predictive models with the aim of having better insights into their customers. Such an interest in model improvement has intensified in recent years mostly because of fast development of machine learning and artificial intelligence. For standard lending institution default predictive model with high performance helps to considerably minimize Credit Loss, resulting in higher revenue and profits. Usually the better predictive model the more efficient is the underwriting policy and collection process. A well-functioning model should distinguish creditworthy customers from those that are credit risks. Often, more-predictive credit-decisioning model can identify a greater number of customers within an institution’s specified risk tolerance, which should expand revenues as well.
In this project the goal is to increase detection of defaulted loans before the loan is issued/offered by P2P lending company - Lending Club. Peer-to-peer lending differs from traditional financial institutions like banks or commercial lending companies.
So, Lending Club is a mediator between investors and borrowers, earning money by charging both. The main Lending Club interest is to attract more clients and maintain protfolio size. The motivation of borrowers is clear, they want to find as cheap capital as possible, so they're seeking for the best offer at the market, which is available for them. In case of investors the motivation is obvious as well. Investors look for high ROI (return of investments), but remembering that returns are proportional to risks, we may formalize saying, that investors look for appropriate returns/risks ratio. If investors experience losses it may cause churn rate growth.
The underwriting process for Lending Club looks like this. Borrower applies for the loan, then if he/she meets all the basic requirements - Lending Club using their scoring model assigns client to respective grade. There are 7 grades and 35 sub-grades. Interest rate is dependent on sub-grade. After that, Lending Club gives access to the loan for investors with information about the loan and the borrower (incl. grade and sub-grade) and investors decide whether or not to invest money in this loan. The lower the grade the higher the interest rate, which means, that investors may take higher risks to gain potentially higher returns.
Seeking for default rate reduction we can end up with too restrictive underwriting policy which does not neccessary correlate with higher ROI for investors, because we'll not let investors choose risky loans, which means lower interests. For Lending Club it probably means the loss of investors with high risk appetite and borrowers with weak credit history, or in case of Lending Club those who need higher loan amount

#Problem Statement Analysis
Loan default occurs when a borrower fails to pay back a debt according to the initial arrangement. In the case of most consumer loans, this means that successive payments have been missed over the course of weeks or months. Fortunately, lenders and loan servicers usually allow a grace period before penalizing the borrower after missing one payment. The period between missing a loan payment and having the loan default is known as delinquency. The delinquency period gives the debtor time to avoid default by contacting their loan servicer or making up missed payments.
Defaulting on a loan will cause a substantial and lasting drop in the debtor's credit score, as well as extremely high interest rates on any future loan. For loans secured with collateral, defaulting will likely result in the pledged asset being seized by the bank. The most popular types of consumer loans that are backed by collateral are mortgages, auto loans and secured personal loans. For unsecured debts like credit cards and student loans, the consequences of default vary in severity according to the type of loan. In the most extreme cases, debt collection agencies can garnish wages to pay back the outstanding debt.
The loan is one of the most important products of the banking. All the banks are trying to figure out effective business strategies to persuade customers to apply their loans. However, there are some customers behave negatively after their application are approved.


Importing Important Library and connecting drive
